# Dr. Vicente Gonzalez-Ruiz

## Biography

Vicente González-Ruiz is associate professor in the Informatics
Department of the University of Almería. He received an M.Sc. degree
in computer science from the University of Granada in 1992, and a
Ph.D. degree in computer science from the University of Almería
in 2000. He is a member of
the
[Supercomputing-Algorithms Research Group](https://www.hpca.ual.es/)
of the University of Almería.

## Research

### Image/Video coding and transmission:

In the early 1990's, I started working on transform-based image
compression algorithms capable of being scalable in progressive
streaming environments. It was then that I began my collaboration with
researchers from the CNB (National Center for Biotechnology) in order
to improve remote interactive access to electron microscopes. These
coding algorithms were also used at the Calar Alto Hispano-German
Astronomical Center in this case to optimize the use of the
telescopes.

Next, I was working with researchers from the JHelioviewer project
(https://www.jhelioviewer.org/) which was an initiative promoted by
the ESA (European Space Agency) to study the Sun, to improve the
interactive access system to solar images, in this case taking
advantage of the possibilities of progressive rendering provided by
the JPEG2000 image compression standard. Following in the line of
progressive image transmission, we also use this standard in
hyperspectral images.

Specifically in the field of secure transmission of multimedia
content, I have worked on multicast streaming protocols based on the
P2P (Peer-to-Peer) model, and I collaborated in the specification of
the P2PSP protocol (https://es.wikipedia.org /wiki/P2PSP), which was
funded by Google through its Google Summer of Code program (years
2015, 2016, 2017 and 2018).

### Image processing:

In collaboration with scientists of the CSIC, I worked on the
improvement of the quality of images obtained in the field of
microscopy. We used motion estimation algorithms based on the
computation of the optical flow to interpolate missing images in
FIB/SEM (Focused Ion Beam - Scanning Electron Microscopy) analysis.

Currently we are developing denoising algorithms that preserve the
structure of the specimens in Electron Microscopy images.

## keywords

Image and video coding, multimedia transmission, signal processing.
